---
description: Understand how MindStudio app usage affects credits.
---

# AI App Events That Cost Credits

## AI Inference

AI Inference is an event any time an AI model is used to generate text based content.

* messages with AI
* [Logic Block](../../automation-workflows/types-of-automation-blocks/#logic-block)
* [Send Message Block](../../automation-workflows/types-of-automation-blocks/#send-message-block)
* generating [Prompts](../../prompt-writing/what-is-a-prompt.md) or messages
* [Profiler](../../profiler/what-is-the-profiler.md) benchmark testing

### Prompt

[Prompt](../../prompt-writing/what-is-a-prompt.md) refers to the user’s messages and all context that gets supplied along with it. Counted by token or character, depending on model.

### Response

This is all content generated by the AI model in response. Counted by token or character, depending on model.

## Data Usage

Data usage refers to any usage that occurs when using a [Data Source](../../data-sources/what-is-a-data-source.md) along with AIs.

* Data Sources
* [User Inputs](../../user-inputs-and-variables/what-is-a-user-input.md) during onboarding

### Data Vectorization

When documents or other data is uploaded to be used as a Data Source, it is vectorized into tokens and saved in a MindStudio vector database. The vectorization process is billed by the number of tokens generated.

### Data Query

A usage event occurs whenever the AI queries the saved data. MindStudio charges by the number of individual queries, regardless of the content.

## Function Calls

AIs can run additional functions that are used by the AI. This usually occurs through [Custom Function](../../custom-functions/what-is-a-custom-function.md) Blocks. For certain functions, MindStudio charges per use.

* Function Blocks
* User Inputs

### Scrape URL

When a URL is supplied for an input, the URL is scraped for data. This is charged per scraped URL.

### Google Search

MindStudio charges by Google search performed via a [Custom Function](../../custom-functions/list-of-custom-functions/google-basic-search-custom-function.md).
